Add articles "Prerelease testing" & "Self-hosting", use new API (#3053)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/prerelease-testing.md

---
title: Prerelease testing
description: Prerelease testing.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: webview
ms.date: 02/09/2024
---
# Prerelease testing

Prerelease testing helps apps catch bugs in prerelease channels of WebView2, before they ship in a stable release and degrade the app experience for end users. This document provide guiding principles and tools to help partners get started.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
#### What is prerelease testing?
Prerelease testing means validating your app against early builds of WebView2 to ensure that your app works with upcoming changes. This can be accomplished through automated testing and flighting with Edge preview channels, which contain the WebView2 prerelease bits. The [Edge preview channels](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/deployedge/microsoft-edge-channels) consist of Canary (daily), Dev (weekly), and Beta (every 4 weeks).

#### Why is prerelease testing important?

> Evergreen WebView2 is based on the evergreen Chromium platform that receives monthly major updates. Testing against prerelease channels is the de facto way for web developers to validate their apps against incoming browser updates for the past decade and more. A common discovery from investigations that we have conducted in the past year, is that we regression tends to be application specific. WebView2 is tested in a variety of scenarios, but it is impossible to cover all the scenarios that an app might encounter. This means that the only way to catch certain app specific regressions before it ships to stable is to test against prerelease channels.

Author: typo: "is that we regression tends to be"
```suggestion
Evergreen WebView2 is based on the evergreen Chromium platform that receives monthly major updates. Testing against prerelease channels is the de facto way for web developers to validate their apps against incoming browser updates for the past decade and more. A common discovery from investigations that we have conducted in the past year, is that regression tends to be application specific. WebView2 is tested in a variety of scenarios, but it is impossible to cover all the scenarios that an app might encounter. This means that the only way to catch certain app specific regressions before it ships to stable is to test against prerelease channels.
```

Author: tightened and reworded paragraph

> Some examples of the issues that could have been caught prior to stable prerelease testing include:

Author: garbled: "prior to stable prerelease testing".  stable is the opposite of prerelease, so, a contradiction in terms.
```suggestion
Some examples of the issues that could have been caught prior to Edge Stable by doing prerelease testing (such as in Edge Canary) include:
```

Author: Changed to the more neutral, positive, ambiguous wording:

Many issues in specific WebView2 apps can be discovered before WebView2 changes reach Edge Stable (WebView2 Runtime), by doing prerelease testing, such as in Edge Canary.  For example, the following issues have been caught:

@victorhuangwq - avoiding possibly implying that mistakes were made, when linking to specific issues for specific apps.  "stable prerelease testing" is self-contradictory.

---
title: Prerelease testing using preview channels
description: How to test your WebView2 app by using the preview channels of Microsoft Edge (Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta) to find issues that will affect your particular WebView2 app, before WebView2 changes reach  the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: webview
ms.date: 03/01/2024
---
# Prerelease testing using preview channels

> _Prerelease testing_ means testing your WebView2 app by using the preview channels of Microsoft Edge to find issues that will affect your particular WebView2 app, before any changes ship in the Stable Evergreen Runtime.  Prerelease testing helps your app catch bugs in prerelease channels of WebView2, before the WebView2 changes ship in a stable release and degrade the app experience for end users.  In prerelease testing, you validate your app against early builds of WebView2, to ensure that your app will work with the upcoming changes.

Reviewer: I agree with the redundancy in the introduction paragraphs. I have removed this line, and I have summarized the introduction area as well.

## Importance of prerelease testing

Evergreen WebView2 is based on the evergreen Chromium platform, which receives monthly major updates.  Regressions in WebView2 apps tend to be application-specific, rather than affecting all WebView2 apps.  WebView2 is tested in a variety of general scenarios, but it's possible that some of the specific scenarios of your app are not covered.

To catch app-specific regressions before WebView2 changes ship in Edge Stable, test your WebView2 app against the prerelease runtime that's shipped with the prerelease channels of Microsoft Edge (Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Start by doing automated testing against Edge Canary

Start with automated testing against the Microsoft Edge **Canary** channel, which ships daily.  This enables you to catch issues as early as possible. The Microsoft Edge **Dev** channel ships weekly, and is also a good option.

Do the following steps:

1. Set the preview channel for your app.  See [Set the preview channel by using ChannelSearchKind](#set-the-preview-channel-by-using-channelsearchkind), below.

> 1. Deploy the non-stable channels.  See [How to deploy non-stable channels](#how-to-deploy-non-stable-channels), below.

Reviewer: I agree on this point. Thanks for pointing it out in the review. I think everyone who has touched this document has a different name for it. I will change everything to "Preview", because calling them pre-release will confuse people with the pre-release SDK. Non-stable doesn't quite convey our intentions.

The value `1` indicates reversed search order; that is, from least-stable (Edge Canary) to most-stable.

##### [API](#tab/api)

Using the API is the recommended approach.

By default, the `CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions.ChannelSearchKind` property is `CoreWebView2ChannelSearchKind.MostStable` (an enum value).  Instead, reverse the search order by setting the `CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions.ChannelSearchKind` property to `CoreWebView2ChannelSearchKind.LeastStable`.

.NET:
* [CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions.ChannelSearchKind Property](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2environmentoptions.channelsearchkind)
* [CoreWebView2ChannelSearchKind Enum](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2channelsearchkind)

WinRT:
* [CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions.ChannelSearchKind Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environmentoptions#channelsearchkind)
* [CoreWebView2ChannelSearchKind Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2channelsearchkind)

Win32:

> * [ICoreWebView2ExperimentalEnvironmentOptions::get_ChannelSearchKind](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2experimentalenvironmentoptions#get_channelsearchkind)

Reviewer: Leaving this comment to remind us to do that once it's released

> * [ICoreWebView2ExperimentalEnvironmentOptions::get_ChannelSearchKind](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2experimentalenvironmentoptions#get_channelsearchkind)

Author: guessing will be Options7, under Options6:
https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environmentoptions6
ie, predicted url:
https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environmentoptions7#get_channelsearchkind

> * [ICoreWebView2ExperimentalEnvironmentOptions::get_ChannelSearchKind](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2experimentalenvironmentoptions#get_channelsearchkind)

Author: Rendered articles for review: 
* **Test upcoming APIs and features** (update to use new API)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/set-preview-channel?branch=pr-en-us-3053
* **Prerelease testing** (new article)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/prerelease-testing?branch=pr-en-us-3053
* **Self-hosting** (new article)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/self-hosting?branch=pr-en-us-3053

For "Outdated" comments, to see latest Markdown/commits, use fresh Files Changed tab:
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3053/files

> * [ICoreWebView2ExperimentalEnvironmentOptions::get_ChannelSearchKind](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2experimentalenvironmentoptions#get_channelsearchkind)

Reviewer: Updated

* [ICoreWebView2ExperimentalEnvironmentOptions::put_ChannelSearchKind](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2experimentalenvironmentoptions#put_channelsearchkind)
* [COREWEBVIEW2_CHANNEL_SEARCH_KIND enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/webview2experimental-idl#corewebview2_channel_search_kind)

##### [Registry key](#tab/registry-key)

```reg
REG ADD <HKLM/HKCU>\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Edge\WebView2\ChannelSearchKind /v WebView2APISample.exe /t REG_DWORD /d 1
```

Replace `WebView2APISample.exe` with your own app executable name or the application user model ID.

##### [Environment variable](#tab/environment-variable)

Name: `WEBVIEW2_CHANNEL_SEARCH_KIND`  
Value: `1`

> Note that the environment variable will be applied to all apps that use WebView2 on the machine, unlike the registry key, which can be set per app.

Reviewer: Would it be more accurate to say:

Note that you are not able to specify the target app when using the environment variable. Therefore, when set as a global environment, it will affect all apps that use WebView2 on the machine.

> Note that the environment variable will be applied to all apps that use WebView2 on the machine, unlike the registry key, which can be set per app.

Author: Rendered articles for review: 
* **Test upcoming APIs and features** (update to use new API)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/set-preview-channel?branch=pr-en-us-3053
* **Prerelease testing** (new article)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/prerelease-testing?branch=pr-en-us-3053
* **Self-hosting** (new article)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/self-hosting?branch=pr-en-us-3053

For "Outdated" comments, to see latest Markdown/commits, use fresh Files Changed tab:
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3053/files

> Note that the environment variable will be applied to all apps that use WebView2 on the machine, unlike the registry key, which can be set per app.

Author: closing comment b/c new location of this info is:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/set-preview-channel?branch=pr-en-us-3053&tabs=environment-variable - 
"The environment variable will be applied to all apps that use WebView2 on the machine, unlike the registry key, which can be set per app."

The objected-to wording in Outdated markdown was: 
Note that 
the environment variable will be applied to all apps that use WebView2 on the machine, unlike the registry key, which can be set per app.

Thus the orig wording remains, against the suggestion from Nic, which is:
"You are not able to specify the target app when using the environment variable. Therefore, when set as a global environment, it will affect all apps that use WebView2 on the machine."

I plan to create a fresh Comment to suggest that change, in set-preview-channel.md.  
@champnic @victorhuangwq

> Note that the environment variable will be applied to all apps that use WebView2 on the machine, unlike the registry key, which can be set per app.

Author: Fresh [comment](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3053/files#r1571503671) that replaces the present, Outdated comment

| Channel | Link |
| --- | --- |
| Canary | [Download](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2084649&Channel=Canary) |
| Dev | [Download](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2093291) |
| Beta | [Download](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2093376) |

This only needs to be done once per machine.  Prerelease channels are evergreen, so will automatically get updated when newer versions are available.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Option 2: Programmatically deploy preview channels via API endpoints

In your app's code, periodically poll the following API endpoints to get and deploy the latest version of each preview channel of Microsoft Edge:

| Channel | Link |
| --- | --- |
| Canary | [https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/canary](https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/canary)<br>[MSI Link](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2084649&Channel=Canary) |
| Dev | [https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/dev](https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/dev) |
| Beta | [https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/beta](https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/beta) |

> The Edge Dev and Edge Beta channels contain MSI Links.  The Edge Canary channel has a separate MSI link.

Reviewer: @vickiez I was mostly referring to your wiki document when writing this. Do you have better instructions to offer here?

From our previous discussions, it was mostly they will have to create their own custom scripts, call the api, fetch the latest packages to the device, and then install it.

> The Edge Dev and Edge Beta channels contain MSI Links.  The Edge Canary channel has a separate MSI link.

Author: Rendered articles for review: 
* **Test upcoming APIs and features** (update to use new API)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/set-preview-channel?branch=pr-en-us-3053
* **Prerelease testing** (new article)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/prerelease-testing?branch=pr-en-us-3053
* **Self-hosting** (new article)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/self-hosting?branch=pr-en-us-3053

For "Outdated" comments, to see latest Markdown/commits, use fresh Files Changed tab:
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3053/files

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## How to do automated testing

Author: Rendered articles for review: 
* **Test upcoming APIs and features** (update to use new API)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/set-preview-channel?branch=pr-en-us-3053
* **Prerelease testing** (new article)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/prerelease-testing?branch=pr-en-us-3053
* **Self-hosting** (new article)
   * https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/self-hosting?branch=pr-en-us-3053

For "Outdated" comments, to see latest Markdown/commits, use fresh Files Changed tab:
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3053/files

> ## How to do automated testing

Author: closing comment, b/c line 43 in fresh Files Changed tab reads:
```
1. **Conduct automated testing on your app running against the preview channels**:  <!-- 2 trailing spaces (linebreak) -->
You can do this automated testing by using WebDriver.
See [Automate and test WebView2 apps with Microsoft Edge WebDriver](./webdriver.md).
```
@champnic @victorhuangwq

## Setting the preview channel by using ChannelSearchKind to set the channel search order

The channel search kind controls the channel search order.  By default, the WebView2 loader searches for binaries from most-stable to least-stable (Canary), using the first binary that's found:

```
WebView2 Runtime (Stable) ->  Edge Beta -> Edge Dev -> Edge Canary
```

To do prerelease testing, reverse the channel search order, so that the loader looks for binaries in order from least-stable (Canary) to most-stable:

```
Edge Canary -> Edge Dev -> Edge Beta -> WebView2 Runtime (Stable)
```

The channel search kind can be set per-app through a registry key, an environment variable, an API, or a group policy.

The value `1` indicates reversed search order; that is, from least-stable (Edge Canary) to most-stable.

##### [Registry key](#tab/registry-key)

```reg
REG ADD <HKLM/HKCU>\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Edge\WebView2\ChannelSearchKind /v WebView2APISample.exe /t REG_DWORD /d 1
```

Replace `WebView2APISample.exe` with your own app executable name or the application user model ID.

##### [Environment variable](#tab/environment-variable)

Name: `WEBVIEW2_CHANNEL_SEARCH_KIND`  
Value: `1`

> Note that the environment variable will be applied to all apps that use WebView2 on the machine, unlike the registry key, which can be set per app.<!-- todo: confirm this line, copied from self-hosting.md -->

Author: "Note that the environment variable will be applied to all apps that use WebView2 on the machine, unlike the registry key, which can be set per app."
Confirm that this line should be added here.  Copied it from self-hosting.md.
@victorhuangwq

* [CoreWebView2ChannelSearchKind Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2channelsearchkind)

Win32:
* [ICoreWebView2ExperimentalEnvironmentOptions::get_ChannelSearchKind](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2experimentalenvironmentoptions#get_channelsearchkind)
* [ICoreWebView2ExperimentalEnvironmentOptions::put_ChannelSearchKind](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2experimentalenvironmentoptions#put_channelsearchkind)
* [COREWEBVIEW2_CHANNEL_SEARCH_KIND enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/webview2experimental-idl#corewebview2_channel_search_kind)

##### [Registry key](#tab/registry-key)

```reg
REG ADD <HKLM/HKCU>\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Edge\WebView2\ChannelSearchKind /v WebView2APISample.exe /t REG_DWORD /d 1
```

Replace `WebView2APISample.exe` with your own app executable name or the application user model ID.

##### [Environment variable](#tab/environment-variable)

Name: `WEBVIEW2_CHANNEL_SEARCH_KIND`  
Value: `1`

> Note that the environment variable will be applied to all apps that use WebView2 on the machine, unlike the registry key, which can be set per app.<!-- todo: confirm this line, copied from self-hosting.md -->

Author: "Note that the environment variable will be applied to all apps that use WebView2 on the machine, unlike the registry key, which can be set per app."
todo: confirm this line, copied from self-hosting.md
@victorhuangwq

* [CoreWebView2ChannelSearchKind Enum](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2channelsearchkind)

WinRT:
* [CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions.ChannelSearchKind Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environmentoptions#channelsearchkind)
* [CoreWebView2ChannelSearchKind Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2channelsearchkind)

Win32:
* [ICoreWebView2ExperimentalEnvironmentOptions::get_ChannelSearchKind](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2experimentalenvironmentoptions#get_channelsearchkind)
* [ICoreWebView2ExperimentalEnvironmentOptions::put_ChannelSearchKind](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2experimentalenvironmentoptions#put_channelsearchkind)
* [COREWEBVIEW2_CHANNEL_SEARCH_KIND enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/webview2experimental-idl#corewebview2_channel_search_kind)

#### [Group policy](#tab/group-policy)

Set the `ChannelSearchKind` policy.

Name: `<app exe name or app user model ID - ex: WebView2APISample.exe>`  
Value: `1`

Do either of the following:

> * Download the Microsoft Edge policy files, which include the WebView2 policy files, from [Download and configure Microsoft Edge for Business](https://www.microsoft.com/edge/business/download).  Click any of the three **Download Windows Policy** links.<!-- todo: no "Edge policy" download link there -->

Author: Is this correct?  "Click any of the three **Download Windows Policy** links.

because there's no "Edge policy" download link there, at https://www.microsoft.com/edge/business/download

Reviewer 2: The links are in small text under each architecture:
- Download Windows 64-bit Policy
- Download Windows 32-bit Policy
- Download Windows ARM64 Policy

Author: latest wording seems good:
```
* Download the Microsoft Edge policy files, which include the WebView2 policy files, 
from [Download and configure Microsoft Edge for Business](https://www.microsoft.com/edge/business/download).  
For more information, see [Configure Microsoft Edge policy settings on Windows devices](/deployedge/configure-microsoft-edge).
```

> * Use the built-in policy on Intune.<!-- todo: link to more info -->

Author: What's a URL to get more info about "Use the built-in policy on Intune"?  @victorhuangwq

Reviewer 2: I don't believe we have any WebView2-specific steps, but it's basically the same as the Edge steps:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/deployedge/configure-edge-with-intune

Only difference is that the category is Microsoft Edge WebView2 instead of Microsoft Edge

Author: @vickiez @victorhuangwq - my impression is that both articles are relevant, and a little different for different contexts, and user might want to see both articles, so keep both links.  Closing.

## Setting the preview channel by using the browser executable folder

The browser executable folder is the path to the folder that contains the WebView2 Runtime binaries.  This option is useful if you're using a fixed Runtime.  The browser executable folder path can be set per app through a registry key, environment variable, API, or group policy.

#### [Registry key](#tab/registry-key)

```reg
REG ADD <HKLM/HKCU>\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Edge\WebView2\BrowserExecutableFolder /v WebView2APISample.exe /t REG_SZ /d "C:\Users\myname\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Edge SxS\Application\88.0.680.0"
```

* Replace `WebView2APISample.exe` with your app's executable name, or with the application user model ID.

* Replace the example path with the path to the desired Microsoft Edge preview channel.

#### [Environment variable](#tab/environment-variable)

Name: `WEBVIEW2_BROWSER_EXECUTABLE_FOLDER`  
Value: `<path to desired Microsoft Edge preview channel>`

#### [API](#tab/api)

Pass the path to the browser executable folder during environment creation, by calling `CreateCoreWebView2EnvironmentWithOptions`.

.NET: 

> * [todo]

Author: What's the .NET & WinRT equivalent URLs or API names, equivalent to Win32's https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/webview2-idl#createcorewebview2environmentwithoptions

@victorhuangwq @peiche-jessica 

Not sure if asked this, or similar question, in another PR - can't locate that discussion.

Author: found answer/discussion, PR comment:
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3028/files#r1487001611

WinRT:
* [todo]

Win32:
* [CreateCoreWebView2EnvironmentWithOptions](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/webview2-idl#createcorewebview2environmentwithoptions)

#### [Group policy](#tab/group-policy)

Set `BrowserExecutableFolder`.

Name: `<app exe name or app user model ID - ex: WebView2APISample.exe>`
Value: `<path to desired Microsoft Edge preview channel>`

> Download the Microsoft Edge policy files, which include the WebView2 policy files, from the Edge Enterprise site,<!-- todo: link --> or use the built-in policy on Intune.<!-- todo: link -->

Author: copy Enterprise link from other tab.
copy Intune link from other comment in this PR.

Author: deleted that now-dup paragraph; use paragraph below it

Do either of the following:

> * Download the Microsoft Edge policy files, which include the WebView2 policy files, from [Download and configure Microsoft Edge for Business](https://www.microsoft.com/edge/business/download).  Click any of the three **Download Windows Policy** links.<!-- todo: no "Edge policy" download link there -->

Author: dup todo's, gather answers from other PR Comments

Author: both items have a link, so Closing.
```
* Download the Microsoft Edge policy files, which include the WebView2 policy files, from [Download and configure Microsoft Edge for Business](https://www.microsoft.com/edge/business/download).  For more information, see [Configure Microsoft Edge policy settings on Windows devices](/deployedge/configure-microsoft-edge).

* Use the built-in policy on Intune.  See [Configure Microsoft Edge policy settings in Microsoft Intune](/mem/intune/configuration/administrative-templates-configure-edge).
```

---

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## How to deploy non-stable channels

Preview channels of Microsoft Edge are also called _insider channels_.  These are the non-stable channels of Microsoft Edge.

You can deploy a preview channel of Microsoft Edge by doing either of the following:
* Manually install preview channels on test machines.
* Programmatically deploy preview channels via API.

These options are explained below.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Option 1: Manually install preview channels on test machines

Insider channels can be manually installed through the following links:

| Channel | Link |
| --- | --- |
| Canary | [Download](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2084649&Channel=Canary) |
| Dev | [Download](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2093291) |
| Beta | [Download](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2093376) |

This only needs to be done once per machine.  Prerelease channels are evergreen, so will automatically get updated when newer versions are available.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Option 2: Programmatically deploy preview channels via API

> <!-- todo: which api? -->

Author: which API?   @victorhuangwq

In your app's code, periodically poll the following pages to get and deploy the latest version of each preview channel of Microsoft Edge.

| Channel | Link |
| --- | --- |
| Canary | [https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/canary](https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/canary)<br>[MSI Link](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2084649&Channel=Canary) |
| Dev | [https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/dev](https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/dev) |
| Beta | [https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/beta](https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/beta) |

The Edge Dev and Edge Beta channels contain MSI Links.  The Edge Canary channel has a separate MSI link.

> <!-- todo: See Also link? -->

Author: add link to how to use API to programmatically deploy preview channels.  @victorhuangwq

Author: ```
In your app's code, periodically poll the following API endpoints to get and deploy 
the latest version of each preview channel of Microsoft Edge:
...
The Edge Dev and Edge Beta channels contain MSI Links.  
The Edge Canary channel has a separate MSI link.
<!-- todo: link to more info about how to use API to do this -->
```

Author: that wording is sufficient AFAIK

---
title: Prerelease testing using preview channels
description: How to test your WebView2 app by using the preview channels of Microsoft Edge (Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta) to find issues that will affect your particular WebView2 app, before WebView2 changes migrate to the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: webview
ms.date: 02/15/2024
---
# Prerelease testing using preview channels

> _Prerelease testing_ means testing your WebView2 app by using the preview channels of Microsoft Edge to find issues that will affect your particular WebView2 app, before WebView2 changes migrate to Evergreen WebView2 Runtime.  Prerelease testing helps your app catch bugs in prerelease channels of WebView2, before the WebView2 changes ship in a stable release and degrade the app experience for end users.  In prerelease testing, you validate your app against early builds of WebView2, to ensure that your app will work with the upcoming changes.

Reviewer 3: I have not seen such phrasing used: `changes migrate to Evergreen WebView2 Runtime`. I would say something like `before changes will reach Stable channel of wv2 evergreen runtime.`

Author: The current latest wording:

_Prerelease testing_ means testing your WebView2 app by using the preview channels of Microsoft Edge to find issues that will affect your particular WebView2 app, **before any changes ship in the Stable Evergreen Runtime**.  Prerelease testing helps your app catch bugs in prerelease channels of WebView2, **before the WebView2 changes ship in a stable release** and degrade the app experience for end users.  In prerelease testing, you validate your app against early builds of WebView2, to ensure that your app will work with the upcoming changes.

To validate your app against early builds of WebView2, do automated testing with the preview channels of Microsoft Edge.  A preview channel contains a WebView2 preview runtime.

The preview (or "insider") channels of Microsoft Edge consist of:
* Edge Canary - releases daily.
* Edge Dev - releases weekly.
* Edge Beta - releases every 4 weeks.

See also: 
* [Overview of the Microsoft Edge channels](/deployedge/microsoft-edge-channels)
* [Become a Microsoft Edge Insider](https://www.microsoft.com/edge/download/insider) - download Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta
* [Self-hosting by deploying preview channels](./self-hosting.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Importance of prerelease testing

> Evergreen WebView2 is based on the evergreen Chromium platform, which receives monthly major updates.  To validate your own, particular app against incoming browser updates, test your WebView2 app against the prerelease channels of Microsoft Edge (Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta).  Regressions in WebView2 apps tend to be application-specific, rather than affecting all WebView2 apps.

Reviewer: > test your WebView2 app against the prerelease channels of Microsoft Edge (Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta).

Test your WebView2 app against the prerelease runtime shipped with the prerelease channels of Microsoft Edge  (Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta).

I prefer the above phrasing, because I'm afraid people might be confused as to the fact that Edge is not a runtime.

Author: ```
To catch app-specific regressions before WebView2 changes ship in Edge Stable, test your WebView2 app against the prerelease runtime that's shipped with the prerelease channels of Microsoft Edge (Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta).
```

> Evergreen WebView2 is based on the evergreen Chromium platform, which receives monthly major updates.  To validate your own, particular app against incoming browser updates, test your WebView2 app against the prerelease channels of Microsoft Edge (Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta).  Regressions in WebView2 apps tend to be application-specific, rather than affecting all WebView2 apps.

Reviewer 3: " To validate your own, particular app against incoming browser updates, test your WebView2 app against the prerelease channels of Microsoft Edge (Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta)." - this is already mentioned in the previous chapter.

Author: keeping that point here, w/ Victor's wording:
```
To catch app-specific regressions before WebView2 changes ship in Edge Stable, test your WebView2 app against the prerelease runtime that's shipped with the prerelease channels of Microsoft Edge (Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta).
```
This section has a special focus/context, in which to re-make the point.  And Victor's wording is helpful, might propagate aspects of it to the above section.

> The only way to catch app-specific regressions before WebView2 changes ship in Edge Stable is to test your particular app against the prerelease channels of Microsoft Edge.  WebView2 is tested in a variety of general scenarios, but it's not feasible for that general testing to cover all the scenarios that various specific apps might encounter.

Reviewer: > before WebView2 changes ship in Edge Stable

Before WebView2 changes ship in Evergreen WebView2 Runtime.

For WebView2, our changes goes from Edge Canary > Edge Dev > Edge Beta > Evergreen WebView2 Runtime (our stable). We branch out from Edge Stable at the stable phase.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To catch app-specific regressions before WebView2 changes ship in Edge Stable, test your particular app against the prerelease channels of Microsoft Edge.  WebView2 is tested in a variety of general scenarios, but it's possible that some of the specific scenarios of your app are not covered.
```

Suggestion to turn this to a more positive version.

Author: confirmed that this change has been made

Many issues in specific WebView2 apps can be discovered before WebView2 changes reach the Stable WebView2 Runtime, by doing prerelease testing, such as in Edge Canary.  For example, the following issues have been caught:

> - [Unable to open https://www.facebook.com, once load will directly ProcessFailed](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/issues/4281)

Reviewer 3: `For example, the following issues have been caught: `-  but you show the issues which are caught in stable. We probably want good examples which caught in prerelease and then - issues which were not caught and caused major outage for the apps.

Reviewer: @vbryh-msft I think there was some confusion between me and @mikehoffms here.

I think what should be stated here is:
> Some examples of the issues that could have been caught in a preview runtime prior to stable include:

So the examples are correct. I'm trying to point out that these issues went into stable, but could have been caught if people did prerelease testing

Author: @Reezaali - i'm concerned that listing & linking to these specific mistakes that people made, is too-specific detail & too negative, to include in the main docs.

Reviewer 4: Discussed offline.

Start with automated testing against the Microsoft Edge **Canary** channel, which ships daily.  This enables you to catch issues as early as possible. The Microsoft Edge **Dev** channel ships weekly, and is also a good option.

Do the following steps:
1. Set the preview channel for your app.  See [Ways to set the preview channel](#ways-to-set-the-preview-channel), below.
1. Deploy the non-stable channels.  See [How to deploy non-stable channels](#how-to-deploy-non-stable-channels), below.
1. Conduct automated testing on your app running against the non-stable channels.  See [How to do automated testing](#how-to-do-automated-testing), below.
1. Compare the results with the baseline.  See [The baseline release of WebView2 for testing](#the-baseline-release-of-webview2-for-testing), below.

Upon finding issues, you can report them via the [WebView2 feedback repo](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Ways to set the preview channel

You can set the preview channel by doing either of the following:
* Use `ChannelSearchKind` to set the channel search order.

> * Use the browser executable folder.

Reviewer 3: mention here that it is for fixed runtime, not evergreen because it is not updated automatically as far as I understand

Author: can we Resolve/close this comment?  it appears we've removed the "browser executable folder" section/approach.  
@vbryh-msft - your comment has "it" twice, not sure what you're referring to, probably the b. e. f. approach.  (Avoid "it", specify the item directly.)

The channel search kind controls the default channel search order.  By default, the WebView2 loader searches for binaries from most-stable to least-stable (Canary), using the first binary that's found:

```
WebView2 Runtime (Stable) ->  Edge Beta -> Edge Dev -> Edge Canary
```

To do prerelease testing, reverse the channel search order, so that the loader looks for binaries in order from least-stable (Canary) to most-stable:

```
Edge Canary -> Edge Dev -> Edge Beta -> WebView2 Runtime (Stable)
```

The channel search kind can be set per app through a registry key, environment variable, API, or group policy.

The value `1` indicates reversed search order; that is, from least-stable (Edge Canary) to most-stable.

##### [Registry key](#tab/registry-key)

```reg
REG ADD <HKLM/HKCU>\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Edge\WebView2\ChannelSearchKind /v WebView2APISample.exe /t REG_DWORD /d 1
```

Replace `WebView2APISample.exe` with your own app executable name or the application user model ID.

##### [Environment variable](#tab/environment-variable)

Name: `WEBVIEW2_CHANNEL_SEARCH_KIND`  
Value: `1`

> ##### [API](#tab/api)

Reviewer: API is our recommended method

Author: ```
The channel search kind can be set per-app through an API, a registry key, an environment variable, or a group policy.  Using the API is the recommended approach.

The value `1` indicates reversed search order; that is, from least-stable (Edge Canary) to most-stable.

##### [API](#tab/api)

Using the API is the recommended approach.
```

By default, the `CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions.ChannelSearchKind` property is `CoreWebView2ChannelSearchKind.MostStable` (an enum value).  Instead, reverse the search order by setting the `CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions.ChannelSearchKind` property to `CoreWebView2ChannelSearchKind.LeastStable`.

> .NET:

Reviewer 3: nit: I have seen .NET/WinRT/Win32 showing in the tabs - not in the list. Hope it is possible here also - but I'm not sure

Author: to research nested tas:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/platform/tabbed-conceptual-overview?branch=main&tabs=windows%2Cazure-cli#limitations-of-tabs

Author: too much research required, for too little gain.  keeping as-is.  rendered section:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/prerelease-testing?branch=pr-en-us-3053&tabs=api#set-the-preview-channel-by-using-channelsearchkind

This only needs to be done once per machine.  Prerelease channels are evergreen, so will automatically get updated when newer versions are available.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Option 2: Programmatically deploy preview channels via API

<!-- todo: which api? -->

In your app's code, periodically poll the following pages to get and deploy the latest version of each preview channel of Microsoft Edge.

| Channel | Link |
| --- | --- |
| Canary | [https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/canary](https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/canary)<br>[MSI Link](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2084649&Channel=Canary) |
| Dev | [https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/dev](https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/dev) |
| Beta | [https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/beta](https://edgeupdates.microsoft.com/api/products/beta) |

The Edge Dev and Edge Beta channels contain MSI Links.  The Edge Canary channel has a separate MSI link.

<!-- todo: See Also link? -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## How to do automated testing

> See [Automate and test WebView2 apps with Microsoft Edge WebDriver](/microsoft-edge/webdriver).

Reviewer 3: link shows 404 for me

Author: needs .md at end, i'll do this

Author: ```
See [Automate and test WebView2 apps with Microsoft Edge WebDriver](./webdriver.md).
```
= https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/webdriver

To do automated testing:

1. **Set the preview channel for your app**:  <!-- 2 trailing spaces = linebreak -->
You can set the preview channel by using `ChannelSearchKind`, so that your WebView2 app uses the least-stable channel (Canary, then Dev).  To do this, see [Switching the channel search order (recommended)](./set-preview-channel.md#switching-the-channel-search-order-recommended) in _Test upcoming APIs and features_.

1. **Install or deploy the preview channel**:  <!-- 2 trailing spaces = linebreak -->
   * If you choose to install preview channels manually, install them from [Microsoft Edge Insider Channels](https://www.microsoft.com/edge/download/insider).
   * If you instead choose to deploy preview channels to devices, see [How to deploy preview channels](./set-preview-channel.md#how-to-deploy-preview-channels) in _Test upcoming APIs and features_.

1. **Conduct automated testing on your app running against the preview channels**:  <!-- 2 trailing spaces = linebreak -->

> You can do this automated testing by using WebDriver.  See [Automate and test WebView2 apps with Microsoft Edge WebDriver](./webdriver.md).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can use WebDriver to conduct automated testing of your WebView2 app.  See [Automate and test WebView2 apps with Microsoft Edge WebDriver](./webdriver.md).
```

Author: ```
You can use WebDriver to conduct automated testing of your WebView2 app.  See [Automate and test WebView2 apps with Microsoft Edge WebDriver](./webdriver.md).
```

author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: webview
ms.date: 04/22/2024
---
# Prerelease testing using preview channels

_Prerelease testing_ means testing your WebView2 app by using the preview channels of Microsoft Edge to find issues that will affect your particular WebView2 app, before any changes ship in the Stable Evergreen WebView2 Runtime.  This helps catch any bugs before they degrade the app experience for end users.

Conduct both automated and manual testing:
* For **automated testing**, do **prerelease testing**, which means testing with a preview version of WebView2 Runtime.  Covered by the present article.
* For **manual testing**, use **self-hosting**, which means deploying a preview version of WebView2 Runtime with your app, to use daily by your team.  See [Self-host by deploying preview channels](./self-hosting.md).

See also:
* [Overview of the Microsoft Edge channels](/deployedge/microsoft-edge-channels)

> * [Become a Microsoft Edge Insider](https://www.microsoft.com/edge/download/insider) - download Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta.

Reviewer: I am not quite sure how relevant this "See also" is in this section. I would suggest we remove it.

Author: @victorhuangwq - in many articles in the docset, agreed - intro section of article needs to be focused.  Instead, leverage big See Also section at bottom of article, to keep Intro clean & focused, rather than becoming a nav-away section.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Importance of prerelease testing

Evergreen WebView2 is based on the evergreen Chromium platform, which receives monthly major updates.  Regressions in WebView2 apps tend to be application-specific, rather than affecting all WebView2 apps.  WebView2 is tested in a variety of general scenarios, but it's possible that some of the specific scenarios of your app are not covered.

> To catch app-specific regressions before WebView2 changes ship in Edge Stable, test your WebView2 app against the preview runtime that shipped with the preview channels of Microsoft Edge (Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To catch app-specific regressions before WebView2 changes ship in Edge Stable, test your WebView2 app against the preview WebView2 runtime that is shipped with the preview channels of Microsoft Edge [(Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/edge/download/insider?form=MA13FJ).
```

Author: ```
To catch app-specific regressions before WebView2 changes ship in Edge Stable, 
test your WebView2 app against the preview WebView2 Runtime 
that's shipped with the preview channels of Microsoft Edge 
(Edge Canary, Edge Dev, or Edge Beta).  
To manually install the preview channels, 
go to [Become a Microsoft Edge Insider](https://www.microsoft.com/edge/download/insider).  
The preview channels are also called _Insider channels_.
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Start by doing automated testing against Edge Canary

> Start with automated testing against the Microsoft Edge **Canary** channel, which ships daily.  This enables you to catch issues as early as possible.  The Microsoft Edge **Dev** channel ships weekly, and is also a good option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start with automated testing against the preview WebView2 runtime in Microsoft Edge **Canary** channel, which ships daily.  This enables you to catch issues as early as possible.  The Microsoft Edge **Dev** channel ships weekly, and is also a good option.
```

Author: ![image](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/assets/45407486/515bc9e2-bd59-49df-93f8-08449147f400)
